# cct-midterm
This project implements a Baysian Cultural Consensus Theory (CCT) to show shared knowledge from binary response data from a csv file. The observed vairblaes X represents the reponse of informant i to item j (0 or 1). The model estimates 2 variables: competence fo each informant (D), defined by the probability of correct/consensus answers. And the other variable consensus for item j (Z). The model for the probability of correct responses is p = Z * D + (1 - Z) * (1 - D). The prior for competence D is set as Uniform(0.5, 1.0), expecting that informants are to perform above chance. The prior for consensus answers Z is Bernoulli(0.5) representing no initial bias toward either answer. 

Posterior inference was performed using MCMC smapling with 4 chians and 2000 draws per chain. The model did converge and was verified by the R values which were 1.0. The outout estimated that some informants had high competence (D5= 0.88) while others had low competence that was closer to chance/guessing (D2 = 0.56). For the consensus answer some were high (Z6 = 1.00) while others were near 0.5. When compared to simple majority role, the model agreed on 15 out of 20 items. The 5 other cases diverged from the majority, this occured when the highly competent informants disagreed with the majority. The model discounts answers from low-competence informants. This shows how CCT offers more informed consensus estimates by accounting for cultural agreement and differences in informant competence. 
